1.md, before:

# Databases: Lesson 1

TODO:

- Last bit of lesson
- Exercises
- Make sure database has the right data
- Make sure lesson relfects data in DB
- Add some images

Outline:

- What is a database?
- Database management systems
- MongoDB
- Review of callback functions
- Connecting to a database from an Express server
- Getting all documents in a collection
- Searching for documents in a collection
  - Getting documents with a field value
  - Getting documents with multiple field values
- IDs
- Getting one document in a collection

- Optional: search operations
  - `$or`
  - `$gt`, `$lt`, `$gte`, `$lte`, `$ne`

## What is a database?

A database is **an organised collection of data**. Example: the [Internet Movie Database (IMDb)](https://www.imdb.com) is an organised collection of information about films. You can even say that a few simple files are a kind of database.

However, when people people talk about website databases, they are often really talking about _database management systems_.

## Database management systems

A database management system (DBMS) is **a kind of software for creating, managing, and using databases**. DBMSs are good for large amounts of data, because they often let us

- get and change data quickly,
- use a database from many computers at the same time,
- and more.

Let's look at some examples where a DBMS can help us.

Imagine that we have a website that lets people view and add quotes. Imagine that it keeps these in a JSON file (not a DBMS database) on a server. If the file is small and organised, there could be no problem.

However, imagine if the file grows to 1000 quotes, 100,000 quotes, or even 10,000,000 quotes. It could take a long time to add a quote! This is because, every time you add a quote, the server needs to

1. read the file,
2. turn it into a JavaScript array,
3. update the array in JavaScript,
4. turn the array back to JSON text,
5. and then save the file.

Now imagine that many people want to add a quote at the same time. Each person will have to wait for the person before to finish!

You could try to let many computers add a quote to the file at the same time, but then what happens? One computer could overwrite the changes of the other one!

A DBMS can solve all of these problems.

## MongoDB

In this module, you will learn to use a DBMS named "MongoDB Server" – usually just called "MongoDB" (or "Mongo"). MongoDB stores data in a format similar to JavaScript objects and JSON, and it lets you use JavaScript to access the data.

MongoDB is fairly popular, but it is not _the most_ popular DBMS. More popular DBMSs use a coding language called "SQL" and store data in tables. You will learn MongoDB, though, so that you do not need to learn a new language or data format.

With MongoDB, the JSON-like objects are called "**documents**". These documents are put in named groups called "**collections**". Each database in MongoDB is a named group of collections.

[TODO: Add an illustration of the hierarchy of database, collection, and document.]

For example, in this lesson, we will use a database called `music`. In this database, there are two collections: `tracks` and `artists`. Each collection has documents like this:

```
{
  "_id": ObjectId("5cf2eb7d1c9d4400006fca92"),
  "title": "Genesis",
  "artist": "Justice",
  "year": 2007,
  "album": "Cross"
}
```

(You might notice the `_id` field has "`ObjectId`", which does not work in JSON. We will learn about this later.)

## Review of callback functions

The typical way to use MongoDB with a Node server uses JavaScript functions called "callback functions". A callback function is **a function that (1) you give to another function and (2) that other function can run later**.

For example, there is a built-in function called `setTimeout`. This function takes two arguments: (1) a callback function and (2) a number of milliseconds. It then runs the callback function after it waits that number of milliseconds.

```js
function sayHello() {
  console.log('Hello!')
}

setTimeout(sayHello, 1000)
```

Here, the callback function is `sayHello`. This code will show the message `Hello!` in the console after one second (1000 milliseconds).

Another way to write it is like this:

```js
setTimeout(function() {
  console.log('Hello!')
}, 1000)
```

Here, we give an unnamed callback function to `setTimeout`. It will do the same thing: show `Hello!` after one second.

If we want, we can also put callback functions inside of other callback functions:

```js
setTimeout(function() {
  console.log('Hello!')

  setTimeout(function() {
    console.log('Goodbye!')
  }, 1000)
}, 1000)
```

This will show `Hello!` after one second and then show `Goodbye!` after _another_ second.

We can even put _another_ callback function inside of that callback function:

```js
setTimeout(function() {
  console.log('Hello!')

  setTimeout(function() {
    console.log('Goodbye!')

    setTimeout(function() {
      console.log('Hello again!')
    }, 1000)
  }, 1000)
}, 1000)
```

This will show `Hello!` after one second, `Goodbye!` after another second, and then `Hello again!` after another second.

These nested callback functions can be confusing, but they are important to understand before continuing.

## Connecting to a database from an Express server

In the rest of this lesson, we will build an Express server on Glitch that connects to a MongoDB server. Let's start by remixing this Glitch web app: https://glitch.com/~cyf-db-lesson-1

After you do that, take a look at the file `server.js`. Some of this should look familiar to you from previous lessons. However, there is some new code, such as this line near the top:

```js
const mongodb = require('mongodb')
```

This imports what is called the "MongoDB Node Driver", which is just some JavaScript that lets you use MongoDB in a Node server. Here is another new line:

```js
const uri = process.env.DATABASE_URI
```

In Node, `process.env` holds what are called "environment variables". These are variables that are usually stored outside of the code. They are often used for secret values, such as passwords. On Glitch, you put them in the `.env` file. Here, other people can see your environment variable names, but _only you_ can see the values. Click on the `.env` file to see it for yourself.

In this case, the variable is a Uniform Resource Identifier (URI). A URI is like a URL, but instead of `http://` or `https://`, it can have other things. It can also include a user name and password. For this lesson, put this in your `.env` file:

```sh
DATABASE_URI=mongodb+srv://cyf:LetsLearnMongoDB2019@cluster0-cxacx.mongodb.net
```

Here, we use `mongodb+srv` instead of `http` to connect to a MongoDB server. We also add a user name, `cyf`, and a password, `LetsLearnMongoDB2019`. Finally, we have the address of the server, which is already hosted somewhere online.

If you go back to `server.js`, you can also see these lines:

```js
app.get('/', function(request, response) {
  const client = new mongodb.MongoClient(uri)

  client.connect(function() {
    response.send('Hello, world!')
    client.close()
  })
})
```

Here, we see some callback functions. We give one callback function to `app.get`, and it runs when the user goes to the `/` endpoint. Next, we see how to make what is called a Mongo "client": a JavaScript object that we use to connect to the database server using the URI. To connect, we call `client.connect` and give it another callback function that runs after it finishes connecting. Here, we then give the response `Hello, world!` and then close the client.

Right now, our code connects to the database server, but it does not do anything with any database. Let's instead start using the database called `music`. We can get the database like this:

```js
const db = client.db('music')
```

Let's put this inside of our endpoint and see if it works:

```js
app.get('/', function(request, response) {
  const client = new mongodb.MongoClient(uri)

  client.connect(function() {
    const db = client.db('music')
    response.send('It worked!')
    client.close()
  })
})
```

If you click "Show" on Glitch and pick an option, you should now see "It worked!"

Next, let's get documents from the database.

## Getting all documents in a collection

To get the documents, we must first get a collection. Remember that a collection is just a bunch of documents.

In our database, there is already a collection called `tracks`, which has documents for musical recordings. We can get it like this:

```js
const collection = db.collection('tracks')
```

Now, we can use the collection to get the documents. We can do this with the `collection.find` function, which searches for documents. Let's just get _all_ documents, so we do not need to give any search arguments to `find`:

```js
collection.find()
```

This code does not actually give us the tracks yet. Instead, it gives us what is called a "cursor": an object that _points_ to results in the database. To get the track documents, we can call `toArray` on the cursor like this:

```js
collection.find().toArray(function(error, tracks) {
  // You can do something with the tracks here.
})
```

Notice that we give another callback function, which runs when the cursor finishes making an array. Notice also that the first argument in the callback function is `error`: if there is a problem getting the array, this will have an error object. Otherwise, it will be `null`, and then can use `tracks`.

Let's add this to our code and tell the server to respond with either the error (if there is one) or the tracks:

```js
app.get('/', function(request, response) {
  const client = new mongodb.MongoClient(uri)

  client.connect(function() {
    const db = client.db('music')
    const collection = db.collection('tracks')

    collection.find().toArray(function(error, tracks) {
      response.send(error || tracks)
      client.close()
    })
  })
})
```

When the page refreshes, you should see JSON text for some tracks like this:

```json
[
  {
    "_id": "5cf2eb7d1c9d4400006fca92",
    "title": "Genesis",
    "artist": "Justice",
    "album": "Cross",
    "year": 2007
  },
  {
    "_id": "5cf6d1bf1c9d4400007568a2",
    "title": "Head/Off",
    "artist": "Sebastian",
    "album": "Ross Ross Ross",
    "year": 2007
  }
]
```

We told Express to respond with an array, and Express automatically turned it into JSON text. Notice that the value for `_id` is a string, but remember from earlier that it was something like `ObjectId("5cf2eb7d1c9d4400006fca92")`. What happened? The `ObjectId` object gets translated into a string whenever you turn it into JSON text. (If this is confusing, don't worry. We'll learn more about this later.)

## Searching for documents in a collection

Let's now learn how to get only documents that match some details.

### Getting documents with a field value

To get all documents with a field that has a certain value, you can use the same `collection.find` function, but you give an object with the field and value you want.

For example, if we want all tracks with `"artist": "Justice"`, we can do this:

```js
const searchObject = { artist: 'Justice' }
collection.find(searchObject)
```

Let's put this in our code:

```js
app.get('/', function(request, response) {
  const client = new mongodb.MongoClient(uri)

  client.connect(function() {
    const db = client.db('music')
    const collection = db.collection('tracks')

    const searchObject = { artist: 'Justice' }

    collection.find(searchObject).toArray(function(error, tracks) {
      response.send(error || tracks)
      client.close()
    })
  })
})
```

Now, when the user goes to `/`, they will get only the tracks by Justice.

### Getting documents with multiple field values

To get all document with _multiple_ field values, you can just add each field and value to your search object.

For example, if we want all tracks with both `"artist": "Justice"` _and_ `"year": 2007`, we can just do this:

```js
const searchObject = { artist: 'Justice', year: 2007 }
collection.find(searchObject)
```

Let's put this in our code:

```js
app.get('/', function(request, response) {
  const client = new mongodb.MongoClient(uri)

  client.connect(function() {
    const db = client.db('music')
    const collection = db.collection('tracks')

    const searchObject = { artist: 'Justice', year: 2007 }

    collection.find(searchObject).toArray(function(error, tracks) {
      response.send(error || tracks)
      client.close()
    })
  })
})
```

Now, the user will only get only the tracks by Justice from the year 2007.

## IDs

An ID is an identifier: something that is different for every item in a group. From the last module, you might remember seeing ID properties like `id: 0`, `id: 1`, `id: 2`, and so on. However, by default, MongoDB uses fields called `_id` with special IDs called `ObjectId`s, which you saw above.

`ObjectId`s have a value made with a number system called "hexadecimal". Hexadecimal can be represented by a string of the numbers zero to nine and the letters "a" to "f". For `ObjectId`s, these strings all have 24 characters. (If you are curious, you can learn more about hexadecimal [here](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hexadecimal) and `ObjectId`s [here](https://docs.mongodb.com/manual/reference/method/ObjectId/).)

To make an object ID, you can type `new mongodb.ObjectID(string)` where `string` is the 24-character hexadecimal string.

For example, if we want to make an `ObjectId` with the string `'5cf2eb7d1c9d4400006fca92'`, we can do this:

```js
const string = '5cf2eb7d1c9d4400006fca92'
const id = new mongodb.ObjectID(string)
```

Here, we assign the `ObjectId` to `id`.

## Getting one document in a collection

To get only one document in a collection, you can pass a search object to `collection.findOne`.

For example, if you want to get only one track with the artist Justice, you can do this:

```js
const searchObject = { artist: 'Justice' }
collection.findOne(searchObject)
```

If you want to get the document with the `ObjectId` with the string `'5cf2eb7d1c9d4400006fca92'`, you can do this:

```js
const string = '5cf2eb7d1c9d4400006fca92'
const id = new mongodb.ObjectID(string)
const searchObject = { _id: id }
collection.findOne(searchObject)
```

## Optional: search operations

### `$or`

What if we want to get tracks with the artist Justice _or_ Sebastian? We have to check for either `"artist": "Justice"` _or_ `"artist": "Sebastian"`.

To get all documents with _any_ of multiple field values, you can use the special `$or` key in your search object with an array value of other search objects.

If we want all tracks by Justice or Sebastian, we can do this:

```js
const searchObject = {
  $or: [{ artist: 'Justice' }, { artist: 'Sebastian' }]
}

collection.find(searchObject)
```

Let's put this in our code:

```js
app.get('/', function(request, response) {
  const client = new mongodb.MongoClient(uri)

  client.connect(function() {
    const db = client.db('music')
    const collection = db.collection('tracks')

    const searchObject = {
      $or: [{ artist: 'Justice' }, { artist: 'Sebastian' }]
    }

    collection.find(searchObject).toArray(function(error, tracks) {
      response.send(error || tracks)
      client.close()
    })
  })
})
```

Now, when the user goes to `/`, they should only tracks by Justice and tracks by Sebastian.

What if we want

1. tracks by Justice from 2007 and
2. tracks by Sebastian from 2006?

Here, we can just update our search objects like this:

```js
const searchObject = {
  $or: [{ artist: 'Justice', year: 2007 }, { artist: 'Sebastian', year: 2006 }]
}

collection.find(searchObject)
```

Let's put this in our code:

```js
app.get('/', function(request, response) {
  const client = new mongodb.MongoClient(uri)

  client.connect(function() {
    const db = client.db('music')
    const collection = db.collection('tracks')

    const searchObject = {
      $or: [
        { artist: 'Justice', year: 2007 },
        { artist: 'Sebastian', year: 2006 }
      ]
    }

    collection.find(searchObject).toArray(function(error, tracks) {
      response.send(error || tracks)
      client.close()
    })
  })
})
```

### `$gt`, `$lt`, `$gte`, `$lte`, `$ne`

TODO

Commit message:

Add `TODO` for emphasising persisting data

1.md, after:

# Databases: Lesson 1

TODO:

- Last bit of lesson
- Rewrite bit about why DBMSs are nice to emphasise persisting data, since students haven't persisted with files yet
- Exercises
- Make sure database has the right data
- Make sure lesson relfects data in DB
- Add some images

Outline:

- What is a database?
- Database management systems
- MongoDB
- Review of callback functions
- Connecting to a database from an Express server
- Getting all documents in a collection
- Searching for documents in a collection
  - Getting documents with a field value
  - Getting documents with multiple field values
- IDs
- Getting one document in a collection

- Optional: search operations
  - `$or`
  - `$gt`, `$lt`, `$gte`, `$lte`, `$ne`

## What is a database?

A database is **an organised collection of data**. Example: the [Internet Movie Database (IMDb)](https://www.imdb.com) is an organised collection of information about films. You can even say that a few simple files are a kind of database.

However, when people people talk about website databases, they are often really talking about _database management systems_.

## Database management systems

A database management system (DBMS) is **a kind of software for creating, managing, and using databases**. DBMSs are good for large amounts of data, because they often let us

- get and change data quickly,
- use a database from many computers at the same time,
- and more.

Let's look at some examples where a DBMS can help us.

Imagine that we have a website that lets people view and add quotes. Imagine that it keeps these in a JSON file (not a DBMS database) on a server. If the file is small and organised, there could be no problem.

However, imagine if the file grows to 1000 quotes, 100,000 quotes, or even 10,000,000 quotes. It could take a long time to add a quote! This is because, every time you add a quote, the server needs to

1. read the file,
2. turn it into a JavaScript array,
3. update the array in JavaScript,
4. turn the array back to JSON text,
5. and then save the file.

Now imagine that many people want to add a quote at the same time. Each person will have to wait for the person before to finish!

You could try to let many computers add a quote to the file at the same time, but then what happens? One computer could overwrite the changes of the other one!

A DBMS can solve all of these problems.

## MongoDB

In this module, you will learn to use a DBMS named "MongoDB Server" – usually just called "MongoDB" (or "Mongo"). MongoDB stores data in a format similar to JavaScript objects and JSON, and it lets you use JavaScript to access the data.

MongoDB is fairly popular, but it is not _the most_ popular DBMS. More popular DBMSs use a coding language called "SQL" and store data in tables. You will learn MongoDB, though, so that you do not need to learn a new language or data format.

With MongoDB, the JSON-like objects are called "**documents**". These documents are put in named groups called "**collections**". Each database in MongoDB is a named group of collections.

[TODO: Add an illustration of the hierarchy of database, collection, and document.]

For example, in this lesson, we will use a database called `music`. In this database, there are two collections: `tracks` and `artists`. Each collection has documents like this:

```
{
  "_id": ObjectId("5cf2eb7d1c9d4400006fca92"),
  "title": "Genesis",
  "artist": "Justice",
  "year": 2007,
  "album": "Cross"
}
```

(You might notice the `_id` field has "`ObjectId`", which does not work in JSON. We will learn about this later.)

## Review of callback functions

The typical way to use MongoDB with a Node server uses JavaScript functions called "callback functions". A callback function is **a function that (1) you give to another function and (2) that other function can run later**.

For example, there is a built-in function called `setTimeout`. This function takes two arguments: (1) a callback function and (2) a number of milliseconds. It then runs the callback function after it waits that number of milliseconds.

```js
function sayHello() {
  console.log('Hello!')
}

setTimeout(sayHello, 1000)
```

Here, the callback function is `sayHello`. This code will show the message `Hello!` in the console after one second (1000 milliseconds).

Another way to write it is like this:

```js
setTimeout(function() {
  console.log('Hello!')
}, 1000)
```

Here, we give an unnamed callback function to `setTimeout`. It will do the same thing: show `Hello!` after one second.

If we want, we can also put callback functions inside of other callback functions:

```js
setTimeout(function() {
  console.log('Hello!')

  setTimeout(function() {
    console.log('Goodbye!')
  }, 1000)
}, 1000)
```

This will show `Hello!` after one second and then show `Goodbye!` after _another_ second.

We can even put _another_ callback function inside of that callback function:

```js
setTimeout(function() {
  console.log('Hello!')

  setTimeout(function() {
    console.log('Goodbye!')

    setTimeout(function() {
      console.log('Hello again!')
    }, 1000)
  }, 1000)
}, 1000)
```

This will show `Hello!` after one second, `Goodbye!` after another second, and then `Hello again!` after another second.

These nested callback functions can be confusing, but they are important to understand before continuing.

## Connecting to a database from an Express server

In the rest of this lesson, we will build an Express server on Glitch that connects to a MongoDB server. Let's start by remixing this Glitch web app: https://glitch.com/~cyf-db-lesson-1

After you do that, take a look at the file `server.js`. Some of this should look familiar to you from previous lessons. However, there is some new code, such as this line near the top:

```js
const mongodb = require('mongodb')
```

This imports what is called the "MongoDB Node Driver", which is just some JavaScript that lets you use MongoDB in a Node server. Here is another new line:

```js
const uri = process.env.DATABASE_URI
```

In Node, `process.env` holds what are called "environment variables". These are variables that are usually stored outside of the code. They are often used for secret values, such as passwords. On Glitch, you put them in the `.env` file. Here, other people can see your environment variable names, but _only you_ can see the values. Click on the `.env` file to see it for yourself.

In this case, the variable is a Uniform Resource Identifier (URI). A URI is like a URL, but instead of `http://` or `https://`, it can have other things. It can also include a user name and password. For this lesson, put this in your `.env` file:

```sh
DATABASE_URI=mongodb+srv://cyf:LetsLearnMongoDB2019@cluster0-cxacx.mongodb.net
```

Here, we use `mongodb+srv` instead of `http` to connect to a MongoDB server. We also add a user name, `cyf`, and a password, `LetsLearnMongoDB2019`. Finally, we have the address of the server, which is already hosted somewhere online.

If you go back to `server.js`, you can also see these lines:

```js
app.get('/', function(request, response) {
  const client = new mongodb.MongoClient(uri)

  client.connect(function() {
    response.send('Hello, world!')
    client.close()
  })
})
```

Here, we see some callback functions. We give one callback function to `app.get`, and it runs when the user goes to the `/` endpoint. Next, we see how to make what is called a Mongo "client": a JavaScript object that we use to connect to the database server using the URI. To connect, we call `client.connect` and give it another callback function that runs after it finishes connecting. Here, we then give the response `Hello, world!` and then close the client.

Right now, our code connects to the database server, but it does not do anything with any database. Let's instead start using the database called `music`. We can get the database like this:

```js
const db = client.db('music')
```

Let's put this inside of our endpoint and see if it works:

```js
app.get('/', function(request, response) {
  const client = new mongodb.MongoClient(uri)

  client.connect(function() {
    const db = client.db('music')
    response.send('It worked!')
    client.close()
  })
})
```

If you click "Show" on Glitch and pick an option, you should now see "It worked!"

Next, let's get documents from the database.

## Getting all documents in a collection

To get the documents, we must first get a collection. Remember that a collection is just a bunch of documents.

In our database, there is already a collection called `tracks`, which has documents for musical recordings. We can get it like this:

```js
const collection = db.collection('tracks')
```

Now, we can use the collection to get the documents. We can do this with the `collection.find` function, which searches for documents. Let's just get _all_ documents, so we do not need to give any search arguments to `find`:

```js
collection.find()
```

This code does not actually give us the tracks yet. Instead, it gives us what is called a "cursor": an object that _points_ to results in the database. To get the track documents, we can call `toArray` on the cursor like this:

```js
collection.find().toArray(function(error, tracks) {
  // You can do something with the tracks here.
})
```

Notice that we give another callback function, which runs when the cursor finishes making an array. Notice also that the first argument in the callback function is `error`: if there is a problem getting the array, this will have an error object. Otherwise, it will be `null`, and then can use `tracks`.

Let's add this to our code and tell the server to respond with either the error (if there is one) or the tracks:

```js
app.get('/', function(request, response) {
  const client = new mongodb.MongoClient(uri)

  client.connect(function() {
    const db = client.db('music')
    const collection = db.collection('tracks')

    collection.find().toArray(function(error, tracks) {
      response.send(error || tracks)
      client.close()
    })
  })
})
```

When the page refreshes, you should see JSON text for some tracks like this:

```json
[
  {
    "_id": "5cf2eb7d1c9d4400006fca92",
    "title": "Genesis",
    "artist": "Justice",
    "album": "Cross",
    "year": 2007
  },
  {
    "_id": "5cf6d1bf1c9d4400007568a2",
    "title": "Head/Off",
    "artist": "Sebastian",
    "album": "Ross Ross Ross",
    "year": 2007
  }
]
```

We told Express to respond with an array, and Express automatically turned it into JSON text. Notice that the value for `_id` is a string, but remember from earlier that it was something like `ObjectId("5cf2eb7d1c9d4400006fca92")`. What happened? The `ObjectId` object gets translated into a string whenever you turn it into JSON text. (If this is confusing, don't worry. We'll learn more about this later.)

## Searching for documents in a collection

Let's now learn how to get only documents that match some details.

### Getting documents with a field value

To get all documents with a field that has a certain value, you can use the same `collection.find` function, but you give an object with the field and value you want.

For example, if we want all tracks with `"artist": "Justice"`, we can do this:

```js
const searchObject = { artist: 'Justice' }
collection.find(searchObject)
```

Let's put this in our code:

```js
app.get('/', function(request, response) {
  const client = new mongodb.MongoClient(uri)

  client.connect(function() {
    const db = client.db('music')
    const collection = db.collection('tracks')

    const searchObject = { artist: 'Justice' }

    collection.find(searchObject).toArray(function(error, tracks) {
      response.send(error || tracks)
      client.close()
    })
  })
})
```

Now, when the user goes to `/`, they will get only the tracks by Justice.

### Getting documents with multiple field values

To get all document with _multiple_ field values, you can just add each field and value to your search object.

For example, if we want all tracks with both `"artist": "Justice"` _and_ `"year": 2007`, we can just do this:

```js
const searchObject = { artist: 'Justice', year: 2007 }
collection.find(searchObject)
```

Let's put this in our code:

```js
app.get('/', function(request, response) {
  const client = new mongodb.MongoClient(uri)

  client.connect(function() {
    const db = client.db('music')
    const collection = db.collection('tracks')

    const searchObject = { artist: 'Justice', year: 2007 }

    collection.find(searchObject).toArray(function(error, tracks) {
      response.send(error || tracks)
      client.close()
    })
  })
})
```

Now, the user will only get only the tracks by Justice from the year 2007.

## IDs

An ID is an identifier: something that is different for every item in a group. From the last module, you might remember seeing ID properties like `id: 0`, `id: 1`, `id: 2`, and so on. However, by default, MongoDB uses fields called `_id` with special IDs called `ObjectId`s, which you saw above.

`ObjectId`s have a value made with a number system called "hexadecimal". Hexadecimal can be represented by a string of the numbers zero to nine and the letters "a" to "f". For `ObjectId`s, these strings all have 24 characters. (If you are curious, you can learn more about hexadecimal [here](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hexadecimal) and `ObjectId`s [here](https://docs.mongodb.com/manual/reference/method/ObjectId/).)

To make an object ID, you can type `new mongodb.ObjectID(string)` where `string` is the 24-character hexadecimal string.

For example, if we want to make an `ObjectId` with the string `'5cf2eb7d1c9d4400006fca92'`, we can do this:

```js
const string = '5cf2eb7d1c9d4400006fca92'
const id = new mongodb.ObjectID(string)
```

Here, we assign the `ObjectId` to `id`.

## Getting one document in a collection

To get only one document in a collection, you can pass a search object to `collection.findOne`.

For example, if you want to get only one track with the artist Justice, you can do this:

```js
const searchObject = { artist: 'Justice' }
collection.findOne(searchObject)
```

If you want to get the document with the `ObjectId` with the string `'5cf2eb7d1c9d4400006fca92'`, you can do this:

```js
const string = '5cf2eb7d1c9d4400006fca92'
const id = new mongodb.ObjectID(string)
const searchObject = { _id: id }
collection.findOne(searchObject)
```

## Optional: search operations

### `$or`

What if we want to get tracks with the artist Justice _or_ Sebastian? We have to check for either `"artist": "Justice"` _or_ `"artist": "Sebastian"`.

To get all documents with _any_ of multiple field values, you can use the special `$or` key in your search object with an array value of other search objects.

If we want all tracks by Justice or Sebastian, we can do this:

```js
const searchObject = {
  $or: [{ artist: 'Justice' }, { artist: 'Sebastian' }]
}

collection.find(searchObject)
```

Let's put this in our code:

```js
app.get('/', function(request, response) {
  const client = new mongodb.MongoClient(uri)

  client.connect(function() {
    const db = client.db('music')
    const collection = db.collection('tracks')

    const searchObject = {
      $or: [{ artist: 'Justice' }, { artist: 'Sebastian' }]
    }

    collection.find(searchObject).toArray(function(error, tracks) {
      response.send(error || tracks)
      client.close()
    })
  })
})
```

Now, when the user goes to `/`, they should only tracks by Justice and tracks by Sebastian.

What if we want

1. tracks by Justice from 2007 and
2. tracks by Sebastian from 2006?

Here, we can just update our search objects like this:

```js
const searchObject = {
  $or: [{ artist: 'Justice', year: 2007 }, { artist: 'Sebastian', year: 2006 }]
}

collection.find(searchObject)
```

Let's put this in our code:

```js
app.get('/', function(request, response) {
  const client = new mongodb.MongoClient(uri)

  client.connect(function() {
    const db = client.db('music')
    const collection = db.collection('tracks')

    const searchObject = {
      $or: [
        { artist: 'Justice', year: 2007 },
        { artist: 'Sebastian', year: 2006 }
      ]
    }

    collection.find(searchObject).toArray(function(error, tracks) {
      response.send(error || tracks)
      client.close()
    })
  })
})
```

### `$gt`, `$lt`, `$gte`, `$lte`, `$ne`

TODO
