3.md, before:

# Lesson 3

Outline:

- Lesson 2 review
- Authentication in Node.js using passport
- Indexing 
    - indexing a collection
    - implementing full text search in MongoDB
- Role based authentication
- Aggregation
- Replication
- Project in MongoDB

## Review

In the last lesson, we learned

- Signing up for MongoDB Atlas
- Making a local Express server
- Connecting to a MongoDB server from a local Node server
- Creating and dropping databases and collections in Atlas
- Reading documentation
- BSON types
- Creating documents
  - Creating a document in Atlas
  - Creating a document with the MongoDB Node Driver
- Updating a document
- Deleting a document

Now that we know how to read databases, collections, and documents, we are ready to move on to more advanced tasks.

### Use the sample database in MongoDB Atlas

We are going to use the sample cluster that we have already connected to in MongoDB Atlas.

Let's use the Atlas GUI to:

1. create a new database
2. create a new collection
3. import sample data (AirBnB listings and reviews)

We now have a pretty extensive dataset that we will use for the rest of the class.

### Insert a document with accent

The first task here is to insert a document in sample_airbnb.listingsAndReviews with the following fields:

```{"_id":"10057826","listing_url":"https://www.airbnb.com/rooms/10057826","name":"Déluxé Lôft Süite","summary":"Loft Suite Deluxe @ Henry Norman Hotel Located in Greenpoint, Brooklyn and housed in a converted 19th-century warehouse, the Henry Norman Hotel features modern lofts and suites with hardwood floors, antiques and contemporary art.","space":"This loft unit features a kitchenette and is fully equipped with everything you need for your stay. The Loft Suite Deluxe has an alcove bedroom area with a Queen size bed and a comfortable pull-out sofa in the living room area, which in total can easily sleep up to 4 guests. The loft is equipped with 42\" LCD HD TVs in both the living and bedroom areas with premium cable channels (HBO, Showtime & more). There are hardwood floors throughout and a full bathroom with shower/tub combination. Sleeps up to 4 guests.","description":"Loft Suite Deluxe @ Henry Norman Hotel Located in Greenpoint, Brooklyn and housed in a converted 19th-century warehouse, the Henry Norman Hotel features modern lofts and suites with hardwood floors, antiques and contemporary art. This loft unit features a kitchenette and is fully equipped with everything you need for your stay. The Loft Suite Deluxe has an alcove bedroom area with a Queen size bed and a comfortable pull-out sofa in the living room area, which in total can easily sleep up to 4 guests. The loft is equipped with 42\" LCD HD TVs in both the living and bedroom areas with premium cable channels (HBO, Showtime & more). There are hardwood floors throughout and a full bathroom with shower/tub combination. Sleeps up to 4 guests. Guest will have access to common terraces, lounge area, business center with 2 iMac computers, fitness center with dry sauna and steam shower, and laundry room. Greenpoint is an artsy Brooklyn neighborhood filled with great restaurants, cafes, and shops.","neighborhood_overview":"Greenpoint is an artsy Brooklyn neighborhood filled with great restaurants, cafes, and shops.","notes":"","transit":"","access":"Guest will have access to common terraces, lounge area, business center with 2 iMac computers, fitness center with dry sauna and steam shower, and laundry room.","interaction":"","house_rules":"Guest must leave a copy of credit card with front desk for any incidentals/ damages with a copy of valid ID. There are no additional charges than what has been paid in advance.","property_type":"Apartment","room_type":"Entire home/apt","bed_type":"Real Bed","minimum_nights":"3","maximum_nights":"1125","cancellation_policy":"strict_14_with_grace_period","last_scraped":{"$date":{"$numberLong":"1551934800000"}},"calendar_last_scraped":{"$date":{"$numberLong":"1551934800000"}},"first_review":{"$date":{"$numberLong":"1451797200000"}},"last_review":{"$date":{"$numberLong":"1518930000000"}},"accommodates":{"$numberInt":"4"},"bedrooms":{"$numberInt":"0"},"beds":{"$numberInt":"2"},"number_of_reviews":{"$numberInt":"5"},"bathrooms":{"$numberDecimal":"1.0"},"amenities":["TV","Cable TV","Internet","Wifi","Air conditioning","Kitchen","Doorman","Gym","Elevator","Heating","Family/kid friendly","Washer","Dryer","Smoke detector","Carbon monoxide detector","First aid kit","Fire extinguisher","Essentials","Shampoo","24-hour check-in","Hangers","Hair dryer","Iron"],"price":{"$numberDecimal":"205.00"},"extra_people":{"$numberDecimal":"0.00"},"guests_included":{"$numberDecimal":"1"},"images":{"thumbnail_url":"","medium_url":"","picture_url":"https://a0.muscache.com/im/pictures/40ace1e3-4917-46e5-994f-30a5965f5159.jpg?aki_policy=large","xl_picture_url":""},"host":{"host_id":"47554473","host_url":"https://www.airbnb.com/users/show/47554473","host_name":"Mae","host_location":"US","host_about":"","host_response_time":"within a few hours","host_thumbnail_url":"https://a0.muscache.com/im/pictures/c680ce22-d6ec-4b00-8ef3-b5b7fc0d76f2.jpg?aki_policy=profile_small","host_picture_url":"https://a0.muscache.com/im/pictures/c680ce22-d6ec-4b00-8ef3-b5b7fc0d76f2.jpg?aki_policy=profile_x_medium","host_neighbourhood":"Greenpoint","host_response_rate":{"$numberInt":"100"},"host_is_superhost":false,"host_has_profile_pic":true,"host_identity_verified":false,"host_listings_count":{"$numberInt":"13"},"host_total_listings_count":{"$numberInt":"13"},"host_verifications":["email","phone","google","reviews","jumio","government_id"]},"address":{"street":"Brooklyn, NY, United States","suburb":"Greenpoint","government_area":"Greenpoint","market":"New York","country":"United States","country_code":"US","location":{"type":"Point","coordinates":[{"$numberDouble":"-73.94472"},{"$numberDouble":"40.72778"}],"is_location_exact":true}},"availability":{"availability_30":{"$numberInt":"30"},"availability_60":{"$numberInt":"31"},"availability_90":{"$numberInt":"31"},"availability_365":{"$numberInt":"243"}},"review_scores":{"review_scores_accuracy":{"$numberInt":"9"},"review_scores_cleanliness":{"$numberInt":"10"},"review_scores_checkin":{"$numberInt":"10"},"review_scores_communication":{"$numberInt":"8"},"review_scores_location":{"$numberInt":"9"},"review_scores_value":{"$numberInt":"9"},"review_scores_rating":{"$numberInt":"88"}},"reviews":[{"_id":"58665374","date":{"$date":{"$numberLong":"1451797200000"}},"listing_id":"10057826","reviewer_id":"22162519","reviewer_name":"Alex","comments":"I could not have found a better place to stay in Brooklyn. I have nothing but positive things to say about this place. Definitely recommend staying here and would stay again."},{"_id":"88420503","date":{"$date":{"$numberLong":"1469332800000"}},"listing_id":"10057826","reviewer_id":"20282871","reviewer_name":"Dina","comments":"My husband, son and I were fortunate enough to have discovered the Henry Norman Hotel for our recent stay in Greenpoint Brooklyn. Even though we booked our room through Airbnb, we were welcome to all the amenities the hotel had to offer.  We were pleased from our arrival at the hotel, where the exterior was as pretty as the interior and greeted by Robert whose very pleasant demeanor was refreshing.  Each of the staff at the hotel were very professional and accommodating but Robert stood out from the rest.  I was unfortunate enough to have left my phone at a nearby shop after returning via the hotel shuttle, when notifying the front desk to see if I had left my phone in the back seat, Robert quickly responded with his assistance in searching for the item, then driving us immediately to the last location while he assured us he would be outside waiting so we would not have to walk back. I did in fact find my phone at that location (thanks to a good Samaritan) and Robert refused to take compensation for his kindness.  The only thing I would do differently on our next stay is to spend the extra for the room with the patio, as the view from the hotel is quite nice and the breezes up there were wonderful.  We not only will be back to visit the lovely hotel but will gladly recommend it to all who might be vising the Greenpoint area. "},{"_id":"92234102","date":{"$date":{"$numberLong":"1470628800000"}},"listing_id":"10057826","reviewer_id":"19466953","reviewer_name":"Rosana","comments":"Great place!!"},{"_id":"207168650","date":{"$date":{"$numberLong":"1509163200000"}},"listing_id":"10057826","reviewer_id":"95604783","reviewer_name":"Marie","comments":"I am disappointed of my trip in the hotel. The room is well&clean but the staff not helpful. Indeed, because of a flight schedule change, I asked the Airbnb host and the welcome desk of the hotel how I could manage my last night cancellation to be refund. I did exactly what they asked me to do and have been informed two days after that they refused my request of refunding... Despite the policy rules, I found it very dishonest and not correct at all as I have asked them before doing the cancellation on Airbnb and the flight confirmation.\nMoreover, I felt insulted when they made me left the welcome desk to go to the basement in order to let other clients of the hotel believe everything is perfect (I was calm and just trying to solve the issue).\nSo to conclude, the room ok but bad experience in this Airbnb that is an hotel!"},{"_id":"236131644","date":{"$date":{"$numberLong":"1518930000000"}},"listing_id":"10057826","reviewer_id":"11623469","reviewer_name":"Adam","comments":"we rented the suite at the henry norman hotel, and it was lovely"}]}```

* You can use the code that we developed in lesson 2, or the GUI 
Hint: you can use clone in GUI

This document is useful for the next tasks.

## Indexing

Let's start by visiting the official documentation:
https://docs.mongodb.com/manual/indexes/

The most interesting index properties are:

- Default id index

* Let's take a look in the indexes that we have in Atlas GUI sample database.

- Index Types

- Index Properties

- Collation

- Covered queries

### Create a collated index

From the documentation:
"Collation allows users to specify language-specific rules for string comparison, such as rules for lettercase and accent marks."

In our case, we have inserted a document with french accents, so we want to create an index that will take it into account.

To create a collated index supporting the French language in the shell we would:
`db.listingsAndReviews.createIndex( { name: 1 }, { collation: { locale: "fr" } } )`

Now, let's do the same using the Atlas GUI.


### Implementing full text search using MongoDB

One of the special types of indexes is the text index.

To create a text index in the shell:
`db.listingsAndReviews.createIndex( { name: "text", summary: "text" } )`

Now, let's do the same using the Atlas GUI.


#### Exercise

Search for the document using the index.

How can we be sure that we use the index?
Can we create a covered query?

Hint: `db.collection.find().explain()`  


## Role based authentication

Built in roles:
* read
* readWrite
* dbAdmin
* dbOwner
* userAdmin

### Cluster based roles
* clusterAdmin
* clusterManager
* clusterMonitor

### Backup and restoration roles
* backup
* restore

... many more

Let's update our MongoDB Atlas database to use roles.

First, we are going to add a built in role using the MongoDB Atlas. 

Now, let's add a custom, read only in airbnb DB role.

### Aggregation


Why aggregation framework?

Aggregation framework in MongoDB is modelled after the familiar concept of data processing pipelines. 
Documents enter the pipeline with the MongoDB structure and exit the other end transformed into BSON documents with calculated fields.
Commands in a pipeline are executed sequentially and in the order that they appear in the array [].

There are 3 ways to perform aggregation in MongoDB:
1. Aggregation pipeline
2. Map-reduce function
3. Single purpose aggregation methods

In this module, we will focus on the aggregation pipeline.


|SQL |Aggregation framework|
|----|----|
|WHERE / HAVING |$match|
|GROUP BY |$group|
|SELECT |$project|
|ORDER BY |$sort|
|LIMIT |$limit|
|sum() / count() |$sum|
|average()| $avg|
|join |$lookup|

```
db.listingsAndReviews.aggregate([
                     { $match: { name: {$regex: /^aA/} } },
                     { $group: { _id: "$name", average: { $avg: "$price" } } },
                     { $sort: { average: -1 } },
                     { $project: { name: 1, average: 1 } }
                   ])
```

What does the pipeline above do?

1. matches all documents with a name starting from aA
2. groups them by average price
3. sorts them by average price
4. projects(selects) name and average price in the output
 
What's the output like?

```
{_id: .., name: .., average: ..}
```
More information: https://docs.mongodb.com/manual/aggregation/

#### Exercise:

Now, let's do the same using the Atlas GUI.


## Replication

Replication in MongoDB is used to increase redundancy and data availability. 
In its essence it's a way for 3 or more (or even 2 with some caveats..) servers to keep the same copy of data.

![replication diagram](./assets/replica-set-read-write-operations-primary.bakedsvg.svg)

Writes always go to the primary and get propagated *asynchronously* to the secondaries.

Reads can go to the primary or any of the secondaries.

Election process:

Replica sets implement by default automatic failover. If a primary server fails, the remaining secondaries will elect the new primary. 
This will by default be the secondary that is most "up to date" with the primary but we can affect (rig) the election process by assigning different votes to each server.
 
More information: 
https://docs.mongodb.com/manual/core/replica-set-elections/

Using replication we can perform a few interesting tasks:

- delayed replica for backup. Delay backups by an hour, enabling us to recover from dropping a database in production
- hidden replicas for reporting. These replicas will never become primaries so we can safely apply read load to them for reporting purposes
- replicas in different location for disaster recovery
- replicas in different location to be closer to our users

## MongoDB Project

Commit message:

(fix) added project, next steps

3.md, after:

# Lesson 3

Outline:

- Lesson 2 review
- Indexing 
    - indexing a collection
    - implementing full text search in MongoDB
- Role based authentication
- Aggregation
- Replication
- Project in MongoDB

## Review

In the last lesson, we learned

- Signing up for MongoDB Atlas
- Making a local Express server
- Connecting to a MongoDB server from a local Node server
- Creating and dropping databases and collections in Atlas
- Reading documentation
- BSON types
- Creating documents
  - Creating a document in Atlas
  - Creating a document with the MongoDB Node Driver
- Updating a document
- Deleting a document

Now that we know how to read databases, collections, and documents, we are ready to move on to more advanced tasks.

### Use the sample database in MongoDB Atlas

We are going to use the sample cluster that we have already connected to in MongoDB Atlas.

Let's use the Atlas GUI to:

1. create a new database
2. create a new collection
3. import sample data (AirBnB listings and reviews)

We now have a pretty extensive dataset that we will use for the rest of the class.

### Insert a document with accent

The first task here is to insert a document in sample_airbnb.listingsAndReviews with the following fields:

```{"_id":"10057826","listing_url":"https://www.airbnb.com/rooms/10057826","name":"Déluxé Lôft Süite","summary":"Loft Suite Deluxe @ Henry Norman Hotel Located in Greenpoint, Brooklyn and housed in a converted 19th-century warehouse, the Henry Norman Hotel features modern lofts and suites with hardwood floors, antiques and contemporary art.","space":"This loft unit features a kitchenette and is fully equipped with everything you need for your stay. The Loft Suite Deluxe has an alcove bedroom area with a Queen size bed and a comfortable pull-out sofa in the living room area, which in total can easily sleep up to 4 guests. The loft is equipped with 42\" LCD HD TVs in both the living and bedroom areas with premium cable channels (HBO, Showtime & more). There are hardwood floors throughout and a full bathroom with shower/tub combination. Sleeps up to 4 guests.","description":"Loft Suite Deluxe @ Henry Norman Hotel Located in Greenpoint, Brooklyn and housed in a converted 19th-century warehouse, the Henry Norman Hotel features modern lofts and suites with hardwood floors, antiques and contemporary art. This loft unit features a kitchenette and is fully equipped with everything you need for your stay. The Loft Suite Deluxe has an alcove bedroom area with a Queen size bed and a comfortable pull-out sofa in the living room area, which in total can easily sleep up to 4 guests. The loft is equipped with 42\" LCD HD TVs in both the living and bedroom areas with premium cable channels (HBO, Showtime & more). There are hardwood floors throughout and a full bathroom with shower/tub combination. Sleeps up to 4 guests. Guest will have access to common terraces, lounge area, business center with 2 iMac computers, fitness center with dry sauna and steam shower, and laundry room. Greenpoint is an artsy Brooklyn neighborhood filled with great restaurants, cafes, and shops.","neighborhood_overview":"Greenpoint is an artsy Brooklyn neighborhood filled with great restaurants, cafes, and shops.","notes":"","transit":"","access":"Guest will have access to common terraces, lounge area, business center with 2 iMac computers, fitness center with dry sauna and steam shower, and laundry room.","interaction":"","house_rules":"Guest must leave a copy of credit card with front desk for any incidentals/ damages with a copy of valid ID. There are no additional charges than what has been paid in advance.","property_type":"Apartment","room_type":"Entire home/apt","bed_type":"Real Bed","minimum_nights":"3","maximum_nights":"1125","cancellation_policy":"strict_14_with_grace_period","last_scraped":{"$date":{"$numberLong":"1551934800000"}},"calendar_last_scraped":{"$date":{"$numberLong":"1551934800000"}},"first_review":{"$date":{"$numberLong":"1451797200000"}},"last_review":{"$date":{"$numberLong":"1518930000000"}},"accommodates":{"$numberInt":"4"},"bedrooms":{"$numberInt":"0"},"beds":{"$numberInt":"2"},"number_of_reviews":{"$numberInt":"5"},"bathrooms":{"$numberDecimal":"1.0"},"amenities":["TV","Cable TV","Internet","Wifi","Air conditioning","Kitchen","Doorman","Gym","Elevator","Heating","Family/kid friendly","Washer","Dryer","Smoke detector","Carbon monoxide detector","First aid kit","Fire extinguisher","Essentials","Shampoo","24-hour check-in","Hangers","Hair dryer","Iron"],"price":{"$numberDecimal":"205.00"},"extra_people":{"$numberDecimal":"0.00"},"guests_included":{"$numberDecimal":"1"},"images":{"thumbnail_url":"","medium_url":"","picture_url":"https://a0.muscache.com/im/pictures/40ace1e3-4917-46e5-994f-30a5965f5159.jpg?aki_policy=large","xl_picture_url":""},"host":{"host_id":"47554473","host_url":"https://www.airbnb.com/users/show/47554473","host_name":"Mae","host_location":"US","host_about":"","host_response_time":"within a few hours","host_thumbnail_url":"https://a0.muscache.com/im/pictures/c680ce22-d6ec-4b00-8ef3-b5b7fc0d76f2.jpg?aki_policy=profile_small","host_picture_url":"https://a0.muscache.com/im/pictures/c680ce22-d6ec-4b00-8ef3-b5b7fc0d76f2.jpg?aki_policy=profile_x_medium","host_neighbourhood":"Greenpoint","host_response_rate":{"$numberInt":"100"},"host_is_superhost":false,"host_has_profile_pic":true,"host_identity_verified":false,"host_listings_count":{"$numberInt":"13"},"host_total_listings_count":{"$numberInt":"13"},"host_verifications":["email","phone","google","reviews","jumio","government_id"]},"address":{"street":"Brooklyn, NY, United States","suburb":"Greenpoint","government_area":"Greenpoint","market":"New York","country":"United States","country_code":"US","location":{"type":"Point","coordinates":[{"$numberDouble":"-73.94472"},{"$numberDouble":"40.72778"}],"is_location_exact":true}},"availability":{"availability_30":{"$numberInt":"30"},"availability_60":{"$numberInt":"31"},"availability_90":{"$numberInt":"31"},"availability_365":{"$numberInt":"243"}},"review_scores":{"review_scores_accuracy":{"$numberInt":"9"},"review_scores_cleanliness":{"$numberInt":"10"},"review_scores_checkin":{"$numberInt":"10"},"review_scores_communication":{"$numberInt":"8"},"review_scores_location":{"$numberInt":"9"},"review_scores_value":{"$numberInt":"9"},"review_scores_rating":{"$numberInt":"88"}},"reviews":[{"_id":"58665374","date":{"$date":{"$numberLong":"1451797200000"}},"listing_id":"10057826","reviewer_id":"22162519","reviewer_name":"Alex","comments":"I could not have found a better place to stay in Brooklyn. I have nothing but positive things to say about this place. Definitely recommend staying here and would stay again."},{"_id":"88420503","date":{"$date":{"$numberLong":"1469332800000"}},"listing_id":"10057826","reviewer_id":"20282871","reviewer_name":"Dina","comments":"My husband, son and I were fortunate enough to have discovered the Henry Norman Hotel for our recent stay in Greenpoint Brooklyn. Even though we booked our room through Airbnb, we were welcome to all the amenities the hotel had to offer.  We were pleased from our arrival at the hotel, where the exterior was as pretty as the interior and greeted by Robert whose very pleasant demeanor was refreshing.  Each of the staff at the hotel were very professional and accommodating but Robert stood out from the rest.  I was unfortunate enough to have left my phone at a nearby shop after returning via the hotel shuttle, when notifying the front desk to see if I had left my phone in the back seat, Robert quickly responded with his assistance in searching for the item, then driving us immediately to the last location while he assured us he would be outside waiting so we would not have to walk back. I did in fact find my phone at that location (thanks to a good Samaritan) and Robert refused to take compensation for his kindness.  The only thing I would do differently on our next stay is to spend the extra for the room with the patio, as the view from the hotel is quite nice and the breezes up there were wonderful.  We not only will be back to visit the lovely hotel but will gladly recommend it to all who might be vising the Greenpoint area. "},{"_id":"92234102","date":{"$date":{"$numberLong":"1470628800000"}},"listing_id":"10057826","reviewer_id":"19466953","reviewer_name":"Rosana","comments":"Great place!!"},{"_id":"207168650","date":{"$date":{"$numberLong":"1509163200000"}},"listing_id":"10057826","reviewer_id":"95604783","reviewer_name":"Marie","comments":"I am disappointed of my trip in the hotel. The room is well&clean but the staff not helpful. Indeed, because of a flight schedule change, I asked the Airbnb host and the welcome desk of the hotel how I could manage my last night cancellation to be refund. I did exactly what they asked me to do and have been informed two days after that they refused my request of refunding... Despite the policy rules, I found it very dishonest and not correct at all as I have asked them before doing the cancellation on Airbnb and the flight confirmation.\nMoreover, I felt insulted when they made me left the welcome desk to go to the basement in order to let other clients of the hotel believe everything is perfect (I was calm and just trying to solve the issue).\nSo to conclude, the room ok but bad experience in this Airbnb that is an hotel!"},{"_id":"236131644","date":{"$date":{"$numberLong":"1518930000000"}},"listing_id":"10057826","reviewer_id":"11623469","reviewer_name":"Adam","comments":"we rented the suite at the henry norman hotel, and it was lovely"}]}```

* You can use the code that we developed in lesson 2, or the GUI 
Hint: you can use clone in GUI

This document is useful for the next tasks.

## Indexing

Let's start by visiting the official documentation:
https://docs.mongodb.com/manual/indexes/

The most interesting index properties are:

- Default id index

* Let's take a look in the indexes that we have in Atlas GUI sample database.

- Index Types

- Index Properties

- Collation

- Covered queries

### Create a collated index

From the documentation:
"Collation allows users to specify language-specific rules for string comparison, such as rules for lettercase and accent marks."

In our case, we have inserted a document with french accents, so we want to create an index that will take it into account.

To create a collated index supporting the French language in the shell we would:
`db.listingsAndReviews.createIndex( { name: 1 }, { collation: { locale: "fr" } } )`

Now, let's do the same using the Atlas GUI.


### Implementing full text search using MongoDB

One of the special types of indexes is the text index.

To create a text index in the shell:
`db.listingsAndReviews.createIndex( { name: "text", summary: "text" } )`

Now, let's do the same using the Atlas GUI.


#### Exercise

Search for the document using the index.

How can we be sure that we use the index?
Can we create a covered query?

Hint: `db.collection.find().explain()`  


## Role based authentication

Built in roles:
* read
* readWrite
* dbAdmin
* dbOwner
* userAdmin

### Cluster based roles
* clusterAdmin
* clusterManager
* clusterMonitor

### Backup and restoration roles
* backup
* restore

... many more

Let's update our MongoDB Atlas database to use roles.

First, we are going to add a built in role using the MongoDB Atlas. 

Now, let's add a custom, read only in airbnb DB role.

### Aggregation


Why aggregation framework?

Aggregation framework in MongoDB is modelled after the familiar concept of data processing pipelines. 
Documents enter the pipeline with the MongoDB structure and exit the other end transformed into BSON documents with calculated fields.
Commands in a pipeline are executed sequentially and in the order that they appear in the array [].

There are 3 ways to perform aggregation in MongoDB:
1. Aggregation pipeline
2. Map-reduce function
3. Single purpose aggregation methods

In this module, we will focus on the aggregation pipeline.


|SQL |Aggregation framework|
|----|----|
|WHERE / HAVING |$match|
|GROUP BY |$group|
|SELECT |$project|
|ORDER BY |$sort|
|LIMIT |$limit|
|sum() / count() |$sum|
|average()| $avg|
|join |$lookup|

```
db.listingsAndReviews.aggregate([
                     { $match: { name: {$regex: /^aA/} } },
                     { $group: { _id: "$name", average: { $avg: "$price" } } },
                     { $sort: { average: -1 } },
                     { $project: { name: 1, average: 1 } }
                   ])
```

What does the pipeline above do?

1. matches all documents with a name starting from aA
2. groups them by average price
3. sorts them by average price
4. projects(selects) name and average price in the output
 
What's the output like?

```
{_id: .., name: .., average: ..}
```
More information: https://docs.mongodb.com/manual/aggregation/

#### Exercise:

Now, let's do the same using the Atlas GUI.


## Replication

Replication in MongoDB is used to increase redundancy and data availability. 
In its essence it's a way for 3 or more (or even 2 with some caveats..) servers to keep the same copy of data.

![replication diagram](./assets/replica-set-read-write-operations-primary.bakedsvg.svg)

Writes always go to the primary and get propagated *asynchronously* to the secondaries.

Reads can go to the primary or any of the secondaries.

Election process:

Replica sets implement by default automatic failover. If a primary server fails, the remaining secondaries will elect the new primary. 
This will by default be the secondary that is most "up to date" with the primary but we can affect (rig) the election process by assigning different votes to each server.
 
More information: 
https://docs.mongodb.com/manual/core/replica-set-elections/

Using replication we can perform a few interesting tasks:

- delayed replica for backup. Delay backups by an hour, enabling us to recover from dropping a database in production
- hidden replicas for reporting. These replicas will never become primaries so we can safely apply read load to them for reporting purposes
- replicas in different location for disaster recovery
- replicas in different location to be closer to our users

## MongoDB Project

Based on the data from the AirBnB listings and reviews collection, we want to create a front end for it.

Functions:

1. Search for rooms by name or summary
2. Filter by price
3. Show the top superhosts in the page. On click through, show a list of their apartments

You can use Node/Express and the Aggregation framework if you see fit.

## Next Steps

If you have time and interest, please register to either of these classes or any other class in MongoDB university. All classes are free and on average require 6-10 hours of time per week.

https://university.mongodb.com/courses/M101JS/about 
https://university.mongodb.com/courses/M101P/about

Shameless plug(s)

I am also the author of the Mastering MongoDB 4.X book by Packt publishing, available [here](https://www.amazon.co.uk/Mastering-MongoDB-4-x-high-fault-tolerant/dp/1789617871).
 
As a member of the #runningclub at DIT we have decided to put our Monday night running club efforts to good use by raising money for Cancer Research, so a few of us are doing the 10k Race for Life in Hyde Park at the end of July.

If you would like to contribute, please do so here:
https://fundraise.cancerresearchuk.org/page/alexs-race-for-life-3725

Donations are eligible for Gift Aid.
